hey this is fresh tall Walker mr. white
mr. blue mr. Brown and mr. pink are at a
restaurant mr. pink said I can't believe
it
the boss gave us names that match our
shirt colors but no one got the same
name as their own sure color
my name is terrible who cares what
anyone's name is said the person in the
blue shirt yeah that's easy for you to
say you have a cool sounding name maybe
if the cleaners hadn't messed up my dark
colored shirts I would have worn a
different shirt and gotten a better name
mr. pink replied yeah I don't like my
name either said mr. brown
what is the color of each person's shirt
can you figure it out give this problem
a try and when you're ready keep
watching the video for the solution
let's analyze the statements that we
were given we know that there are four
different people who are at a restaurant
mr. pink explains that they were given
names that match their shirt colors so
the shirts will be the same colors as
their names but no one got the same name
as their own shirt color in our logical
grid this means we can eliminate the
entries along the diagonal mr. white is
not wearing a white shirt mr. blue is
not wearing a blue shirt mr. brown is
not wearing a brown shirt and mr. pink
is not wearing a pink shirt
who cares what anyone's name is said the
person in the blue shirt this implies
that the person in the blue shirt is not
mr. pink so we can eliminate that mr.
pink is wearing a blue shirt when mr.
pink replies he says that his cleaners
messed up his dark colored shirts this
means he was not wearing a brown colored
shirt either by process of elimination
that means mr. pink was wearing a white
shirt furthermore since each person is
wearing a different colored shirt that
means no one else is wearing a white
shirt we have one more statement for mr.
Brown who says he doesn't like his name
either in contrast to the person in the
blue shirt who doesn't care what
anyone's name is this implies that mr.
Brown is not wearing a blue shirt by
process of elimination this means mr.
Brown is wearing a pink shirt and mr.
white is wearing a blue shirt so we can
eliminate that anyone else is wearing
these shirt colors and that leaves that
mr. blue is wearing a brown shirt so
this very last statement brings it all
together and we can figure out that mr.
white is wearing a blue shirt mr. blue
is wearing a brown shirt mr. Brown is
wearing a pink shirt and mr. pink is
wearing a white shirt
did you figure it out thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on math and
game theory you can catch me on my blog
mind your decisions that you can follow
on Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch her on social media at pressure
Walker and if you like this video please
check out my books there are links in
the video description